[Uhtred] I am Uhtred, son of Uhtred.
I am a Dane for life.
I have stolen the mystic woman Skade
from the Danish warrior Earl Sigurd.
She's mine. If I have to kill you,
then that is what I'll do.
[Uhtred] King Alfred seeks to
protect his legacy,
but his son, Edward,
refuses an arranged marriage.
I am married to Ecgwynn.
Your wife will be dealt with.
[Uhtred] His daughter,
the Lady of Mercia,
has fled to a nunnery for safety.
I have not forgotten what the bitch did.
I will never forget!
[Uhtred] I rescued her in the past.
And now she needs me again.
The Danes have formed one army
under my brother, Ragnar.
They plan to march south on Wessex,
leaving me with an impossible choice.
Do you stand with us?
I am needed.
You're a whore to the Crown of Alfred.
He does not leave with Skade.
She belongs to me.
Yes, Bloodhair. You can fight
for the witch... to the death.
Agreed. We fight.
[Uhtred] Destiny is all!
[theme music playing]
[crowd shouting indistinctly]
[man 1] Come on, Lord. That's it!
Kill him, Bloodhair!
[man 2] Get him!
[Brida] Come on! Kill him!
Go!
-[Brida] Kill him!
-[man 3] Finish him!
[grunting]
[crowd shouting indistinctly]
[man 4] Yes, yes! Get him, Lord!
[grunts]
-[man 5] Get up, Dane-slayer!
-[Brida] Get up!
You dirty bastards!
[grunting]
[Finan] Come on, Lord! Get his shield!
Come on!
[grunting]
If you want to play that game!
You are happy with this, Ragnar?
You believe this to be a fair fight?
It's a fight.
He deserves it. Kill him!
-Take his balls!
-[screaming]
[Brida] Kill him!
[grunts]
[Brida] Kill him, Bloodhair!
Come on!
-[Finan] Take his legs off!
-[Brida] Kill him!
Uhtred! Lord! Here!
His shoulder!
[Bloodhair groans]
Yes! Finish him!
-[Finan] Yes, Lord.
-[groans]
[grunts]
[panting]
-[grunts]
-[man 6] What the hell?
It's over.
No! It's not over until he's dead.
I say it is over.
I demand my woman.
I will not lose one single man before
the true battle has even begun.
It was to the death!
If you disagree with me
then fight me.
Kill him, Ragnar, and be done.
It is over! It is done.
Take what belongs to you.
Take your witch.
She belongs to me!
I shall see you across the battlefield.
No doubt...
I will kill you.
[Brida] Leave while you're still alive.
Alfred needs his ass to be wiped.
Enjoy your prize.
You ride with me now.
[Bloodhair] Skade!
He must remain cursed. It's your duty!
He has defeated you twice over.
I belong to Uhtred now.
Never.
I've tasted your blood.
What you see is mine!
Ragnar, he cannot be allowed to leave.
[grunts]
Didn't mean to miss! Next time, I won't.
The gates! Now.
Let us be rid of them.
Earl Ragnar, Lord Cnut.
Can either of you tell me why
we allowed Uhtred to leave?
We are gifting Alfred his best warrior.
What is it you suggest we do?
I suggest we kill him.
We can still kill him, all of them.
Apart from your sister.
But we cannot allow Uhtred the Dane-slayer
to return to Wessex
and slay more Danes.
What is your worth?
It was you who helped create these events.
Tell me why not to kill you.
I am the reason we are gathered here.
His worth is that he can drip poison
into the ears of Saxons.
Exactly.
[grunts]
Ragnar!
-[grunting]
-[Cnut] Ragnar!
Ragnar!
You drip poison into every ear!
You smear everything around you with shit!
It's Uhtred you're angry with.
He has caused this division.
-Ignore this piece of weasel shit...
-[groaning]
...and remember, we have a task ahead.
Cousin, you are our leader now.
I am hungry for blood and battle!
Nothing has changed.
We've lost a handful of men
and nothing more than that.
[breathing heavily]
Nothing has changed.
We march
as soon as we're ready.
-[straining]
-Get up.
He took me by surprise.
-Otherwise, I would have made a contest.
-You were right to speak out.
He should never have been
allowed to leave.
That was... weak of my cousin.
[groans]
[Beocca] Uhtred. Uhtred.
This is where we must leave you.
There's a ship waiting at Eoferwic.
Alfred will be wondering where we are.
Alfred will know exactly where you are.
Yes, that is most likely.
Do not get yourself killed
until Aethelflaed is safe.
That would be unfortunate.
It would. And I would have had
a wasted journey.
Aethelflaed is important to the King
and to all Saxons.
After she is safe, what then?
Fate will decide.
Uhtred. You are my brother...
and you shall always be my brother.
[Steapa] Haesten...
only you may enter the palace.
[scoffs]
You must give up your weapons.
-Earl Haesten.
-Lord King.
It is a considerable journey
you have made.
A necessary journey.
Is your wife with you?
I would like to hear of her faith.
Sadly not, Lady.
Pity.
Ale, Lord?
I know you.
-You're the warrior priest.
-I am just a priest.
Father Pyrlig.
[Alfred] You have been
to the north, Haesten.
[Haesten] I have, Lord, to Dunholm.
I journeyed there with Bloodhair,
who remains with Ragnar,
alongside Uhtred...
and Aethelwold.
Aethelwold is there?
He is.
No doubt spreading rumor.
-They are building an army, I assume?
-They are.
The plan is to march
before deepest winter makes it impossible.
They will march
from north to south as a single army.
The further south they come,
the greater they will grow.
They will attract warriors.
[Haesten] Hmm, that is true.
[inhales] If it were my place
to advise you, Lord, I would suggest
you march out to meet them.
Thank you, Haesten.
Your loyalty to our agreement
will not go unrewarded.
Thank you, Lord. Lady.
Despite Aethelwold's obsessive insolence,
I did never believe he could turn wholly
against his father and his homeland.
And his king.
It can only mean death.
Yes.
Alfred will be thinking of battle
for the weeks to come.
I want the Lady of Mercia found quickly.
[Alfred] Father Pyrlig?
Lord?
You will draft and deliver a letter
to my son-in-law, Aethelred.
You will recount the warning of an army
marching from the north,
and you will inform him that, together,
we shall face this army...
at Mercia's most favorable point.
-This is to happen when?
-Immediately.
We cannot wait.
We shall confront them
and we shall defeat them.
In the name of God
and the England yet to be.
Yes, Lord.
The King speaks and acts with authority,
as always.
The King fears his strength shall fail him
all too soon.
Never.
God is great...
as is Alfred.
That is how you will be remembered.
It is time.
I will make no proclamations
except everything is possible.
I will say nothing more than it is time
to change these lands forever.
It is time to begin a story
that will be told amongst the living
and by those in Valhalla forever more.
It will be our song
and our story.
Let it begin.
Let's move out.
[horses whinny]
[indistinct chatter]
My Lady is asking
if you've had enough to eat.
I've told her yes, because the poor nuns
have been in the kitchen all day.
How about a drop more ale for the night?
Godric, you have a job to do,
and you will need to be awake to do it.
[men laughing]
[Godric laughing]
Abbess, may I ask,
how strong must a woman be
-to live like this for all of her life?
-Strong?
Yes. To deny yourself a life
outside of these walls.
Lady, we wish to live like this,
in the service of God.
-I do not regret one day of my time here.
-[door opens]
[nun] Abbess! Abbess,
there are men in the kitchen. Danes.
Close the doors!
Move the table against them. Quickly.
-Why haven't the guards dealt with it?
-They will.
Just as soon as they
become aware of the danger.
-We should call to them.
-No!
If it is thieves,
they may come and go.
[sighs]
-[banging at door]
-[gasps]
[Aethelflaed shushing]
-[banging at door continues]
-This is God's house.
You will leave us this very moment.
If you do not and you are Christian,
then He will send you
to the depths of hell!
Abbess, they are Danes.
Well, then, if you are heathen,
He will strike you down!
[Uhtred] What if I am a Christian
by birth and a Dane by my heart?
What then?
[exhales sharply] Uhtred.
Do you think you know this man?
[Aethelflaed] Yes.
Yes, I do.
Your guards are not, Lady.
Not what?
They're not guards.
Their swords are trinkets.
-It's true.
-They're good men.
I'm sure they're loyal,
but they are not guards.
They are barely men.
I do not like you, young man.
You have a very high opinion of yourself.
I am heathen, I am godless
and an enemy of Alfred...
but I will keep you alive.
-And who is it that wishes me dead?
-Several people, I imagine.
What Uhtred is saying
is that the lands are changing.
Men are becoming sick with greed
and we must all be on our guard.
Well, perhaps.
But I know when I'm hearing half-truths.
I do not like him.
[scoffs] I like her even less.
Nor I you, hag.
[Finan giggles]
She reminds me of my mother,
and that woman was never wrong either.
Cnut!
Yes, Ragnar?
Tomorrow, I want men sent on ahead.
They're to watch for Alfred's army.
So soon?
He is no fool. He will not wait for us
to knock on his door.
He'll want to choose the place of battle,
and we cannot allow him that advantage.
We each volunteer a man,
you, me and Bloodhair.
Yes, Lord.
Will you speak to Bloodhair, or shall I?
You.
Ragnar belittles you.
He is plowing a new field in the hope
of sowing the seed of another son.
If you wish to sit with me,
you'll respect me.
I respect you very much.
Though I do not wish
to sit with you, Brida,
I wish to lie with you.
[chuckles] You should go while you
still have a tongue in your head.
I like that you are proud,
and strong and loyal...
and I will go now.
Bloodhair.
A private moment, Lord Sigurd?
[exhales]
[sighs] Ragnar requests that we each send
a spy on ahead to watch for Alfred.
-That's fair.
-It is.
What was not fair was Ragnar's decision
to allow your fight with Uhtred
to proceed. That was an insult.
Skade is yours.
-Ragnar is your cousin.
-But this is war.
Would I trust my sister in command
of my men because she is my sister?
[chuckles]
Our spies should also act as messengers.
They should carry word of our intentions.
Men will join us, you and me, good men.
We should grow our armies together.
Do you agree?
I do not disagree.
Then...
that is enough.
[Aethelflaed] I hoped you would come.
I have released you from your oath,
you do know that?
Beocca did say.
And still you are here.
I was broken to hear of Gisela's death.
Your father allowed her
to be called a whore.
I'm sorry for that.
That was not your doing.
The woman is still with you, I see.
-Skade.
-She is my curse.
My problem to resolve.
-She is no longer a prisoner?
-She will not stray.
You are carrying so much pain.
Do not give your trust to a person
who does not deserve it,
regardless of her guile and beauty.
You are speaking of Skade still?
It is not my business to ask,
but do you lie with her?
I do not.
She has a darkness.
My immediate concern is your safety.
You must return to Wessex, to your father.
-I can't. I am of Mercia now--
-Aethelflaed, you must.
Aethelred will soon know
that you're close.
The real danger you will face
is from the Danes.
They are marching as we speak,
a great army.
Haesten is with them.
He has not forgotten you,
and I cannot protect you forever.
I will not fight against the Danes.
-Alfred must protect you now--
-Shh.
You are here and I am glad of it.
Soon I shall travel to my estate,
and I shall face
both my husband and the Danes.
I shall fight.
I must...
as my father must.
-He, too, shall march.
-Aethelflaed--
If you will excuse me, I promised
the Abbess I would pray with her.
There is much to pray for.
[exhales sharply]
There should be no doubts
in your mind, Lord.
Once you have fulfilled your promise
to the princess,
you must return to your own path,
to the Danes.
-And they would have me?
-They would need you, Uhtred Ragnarson.
If that is who you are,
then you must return and you must lead.
And you will need Skade, the seer,
to help you lead.
It is not a seat I want.
I have made my choice, Uhtred.
Now you must do the same.
Make your life your own once more.
Turn away from me,
and you and those you love
shall be tormented till death and beyond.
Lord Aethelhelm has arrived.
A good choice, I feel.
Yes.
He has quite a gathering with him.
Oh, he likes to show his feathers.
But he has money and men,
both of which I will need.
A perfect choice.
He must not witness me sickly.
[Beocca] Lord.
On behalf of King Alfred
and Lady Aelswith, welcome to Winchester.
-The King is with Edward--
-I do not recall your name.
I am Beocca.
Father Beocca, an adviser to the King.
My rooms are in the palace?
They are not, Lord.
They are the most comfortable rooms
available at the inn.
-An alehouse?
-Yes, Lord.
And if my daughter were with me, would she
too be expected to rest in an alehouse?
But she is not, Lord.
The palace is under repair.
In my experience,
Roman walls rarely need repair.
You will inform Alfred I did expect a room
at the palace.
I can find my own way to an alehouse,
Father. You are dismissed.
Yes, Lord.
-And may you choke on your oysters--
-What was that?
The oysters, Lord.
They are a delight.
We are to march in one week, less perhaps.
And I will have this matter settled.
What do you say, Edward?
I have looked to God as you asked,
and it is before God
that I did swear my love.
-I say I am married already.
-Then you shall unmarry!
It is as simple as that.
As you clearly lack the courage
to take this step--
To remain married is honorable.
Edward,
you'll say nothing more.
Bishop Erkenwald?
Lord, the girl in question has chosen
to enter a nunnery.
-No, no. She has not, she would not--
-She has given herself to God...
-That's not true!
-...so, the marriage,
if it did exist at all, can be dismissed.
I wish to see her. I wish to--
What you wish, Edward,
is of no importance! None.
The father of your match
has both wealth and men.
-You will do your duty!
-I do not wish to do my--
Do you believe that I wished
for my brother to be killed in battle...
and for the crown to be
placed upon my head?
I did not.
But I soon realized that as well
as it being a burden, it is a privilege
to lead our people.
The crown of Wessex is all-important.
Wessex and England are all-important.
Matters of the heart are not.
She would not have entered
a nunnery by choice.
Unless she cares more
for her God and country
than for
the King's son.
You are to be betrothed.
And in good time,
you shall marry Aelflaed.
Father Pyrlig, the holy relics.
My son will now swear.
Saint Cuthbert's teeth, Lord,
or something kinder?
The teeth are appropriate, Father.
What of my children?
-The children will be cared for.
-But not by their mother.
Of course not by their mother.
She now belongs to God.
[Alfred] The children will thrive...
but first there is a bargain to be made
and a battle to be won.
If the battle is not won,
the children shall become slaves,
and their mother, a Viking's whore.
The crown is all-important.
Do you understand?
I... I do.
We go slowly and we rest often.
To remain strong.
The battle cannot begin without us.
That is true.
I would like to ask
in all seriousness and confidence...
Do I have your confidence?
Of course. Speak freely.
In confidence, then, I ask,
is Ragnar the man to lead our army?
Uhtred did suggest him,
but Uhtred is gone.
-Uhtred has betrayed us.
-My point exactly.
So is your cousin the man
to lead our army?
Cnut, I was...
I was talking friend-to-friend,
nothing more than hypothesizing.
I do not know what that word means,
but I will say this in confidence.
Ragnar is a good man.
His father, the Fearless,
was a better man.
Ragnar's whole purpose in life
has been to avenge him.
He did that by killing Kjartan.
I was there.
Which he has done, yes.
Hence, no more purpose.
Once again, I find it difficult to
disagree with you, Aethelwold.
Ragnar is spent.
That said, he will kill you.
-What? Why?
-He blames you for losing Uhtred.
-Why? I merely opened his eyes.
-And he will close yours, for all time.
I like you, Aethelwold,
but Ragnar will kill you.
Soon.
[babies cooing]
[door opening]
In the name of Alfred, King of Wessex,
I'm taking these children.
-No. You can't!
-They'll become church property
and dedicate their lives
to the worship of God.
[babies crying]
You are Ecgwynn?
-She is.
-Yes.
You are required in Winchester.
He will ask of his precious daughter.
And you can tell him Aethelflaed is well.
Lord, if a Dane army is fast approaching,
then there is only one path to take.
To join Alfred.
To join him and to preserve Mercia.
[sighs]
Then we shall fight, Aldhelm.
And with luck, the right people shall die.
[indistinct chatter]
[men laughing]
Ugh. They are ravenous, permanently.
Take them through.
They're eating into our winter store
and belching it out into the air.
Right.
There you are. There.
Hey, there.
-[pigs squeal]
-That'll fatten you up nicely, hey?
Good girls.
[Haesten] Good morning, nun!
I am an abbess.
[chuckles] I don't care.
[hostages gasping]
We will wait...
for Aethelflaed!
To the hall, all of you, quickly, now!
That's it.
Come on.
-[Uhtred] What is it?
-Abbess?
Danes. Outside.
-[all clamoring]
-I just witnessed them kill a man.
-How many Danes?
-I did not count them, but many.
Why aren't they bursting in?
Finan, hold. Sihtric.
They may not know we're here.
-They have asked for the lady Aethelflaed.
-They know someone is here.
There are two other hostages.
We wait inside and will remain silent.
Abbess, you will go to them
and talk to them.
No, no, I... I... I will not.
You will, because you must.
-[sobs] Did I not say I do not like you?
-You did.
Allow them to believe you are unprotected
and deny Aethelflaed is here.
-And we will do what, hide?
-We will make an advantage out of this.
Abbess, the hostages they have
are dead men breathing.
You cannot save them.
What we must do now is save the lives
of your nuns and my men.
-And Aethelflaed.
-Abbess?
-Aye.
-I will do it.
No.
No. This is my house,
it's my responsibility.
I will do it. [breathing shakily]
[sighs]
It is Haesten, with no more than 40 men.
Forty that I can see.
-Then let us fight them.
-No, wait.
What is it you want?
We have some food and some ale,
it is yours.
What we do not have is silver.
If it is ourselves you want, our lives...
I ask you, why?
Aethelflaed!
Aethelflaed, Aethelflaed, Aethelflaed...
How many times
do I have to say that stupid name?
What I want is Aethelflaed!
Give her to me now...
or this man dies.
[hostage sobbing] No! No, no!
There is no one in this house
called Aethelflaed.
[gasping]
-[groans]
-[gasps]
Deny her presence once more
and a third man dies.
And I will burn down your nunnery
and everyone inside.
Release him.
Release him and take me
in his place. [sniffles]
Or am I too strong for you?
[shuddering]
-[hostage choking]
-[gasping]
Why must you behave like this?
Why must you slaughter for no good reason?
[clears throat] Dagfinn.
-Aethelflaed.
-Why must blood be spilled?
It is heathen!
Ungodly!
And you are the devil's incarnation,
nothing more!
[panting]
And all I can try and do is ensure that
-He shall have you.
-[grunts]
[groaning]
[gasps]
[clears throat]
Could you not just have taken
the ax from her hand?
[Finan] Lord, now?
We do nothing... yet.
[Haesten] Aethelflaed!
Enough men and women have died
to save your bony arse...
at Beamfleot and now here.
Did my lord Erik
not give his life for you?
How many more must do the same?
Show yourself!
[horse whinnies]
There are many horses at the stable.
Why have her other men
not shown themselves?
Because like the men we just killed,
they are busy filling their breeches.
Aethelflaed!
She's here!
[all shouting]
-[bone crunching]
-[screaming]
[both groan]
[screaming]
[groans]
[grunting]
-[groaning]
-That's it.
-It was Uhtred!
-I saw who it was.
-Why is he not in the north?
-Because he is here!
We block every entrance,
but not the main doors.
And we wait!
We are trapped.
We're alive...
and they are 12 or 13 men less.
But we are trapped under a wooden roof.
What do you suggest then, Lady?
-That you give yourself over?
-Yes.
Haesten's right. Why should I live
when so many others have died?
Haesten has never
spoken the truth in his life!
Do not say as much again. Never.
Or those men have died for no reason.
Your men have arrived
at the River Ouse, I'm told.
That was the message.
That is good news.
We will rise early tomorrow
and quicken our pace.
Why expend our strength?
The first battle is always in the mind.
Alfred'll have his spies.
When they see us,
I want Bloodhair's men alongside with us.
I want us to be a swarm, one army.
Then we will rise early
and quicken our pace.
What of Haesten?
I expect him to keep his word
and protect us from the east,
attack from the east.
Only when we have sight
of the enemy in battlefield
can we discuss exactly how we fight.
[Cnut] Agreed.
Are you away to sow another seed, cousin?
-I'm away to my bed, Cnut.
-Alone?
[Brida] Ragnar.
Again?
Yes.
It's the last time, I promise.
One more son.
I swear.
If it's not, I'll take your cock.
Aethelwold, my friend.
How are you?
Alive still, which is good. [chuckles]
I have been thinking on what you said...
about Ragnar and the likelihood
of him killing me.
Soon.
Yes, soon. Thank you for reminding me.
[Cnut sighs]
I was thinking that perhaps...
I should kill him first.
Is that a plan at all?
At least you are not laughing
at the idea. [inhales]
How?
How would you kill him?
In his sleep.
I'm not gonna fight him.
-When?
-Soon.
Sooner than he kills me. [laughs]
-Tonight?
I don't know,
the idea's only just come to me.
It should be tonight.
Tomorrow we quicken our pace.
Tomorrow we begin to think about
the battle ahead.
Tomorrow, Ragnar will become
a different man.
Once it is done...
you will have my protection, friend.
Very well.
Tonight.
-The ale is good.
-Yeah, it is.
Very good.
To the creators of fine ale!
[indistinct chatter]
May God... bless them.
May the gods bless them. Him.
All doors have been blocked
on the outside apart from that one.
Will they set a fire?
Not yet. He will want you alive.
We should fight, Lord.
We should open the doors and fight.
-And die?
-It's as good a plan as any.
Osferth, you'll open the door
on my word and retreat.
We form a shield wall
and then we negotiate.
Negotiate?
Haesten will want his prize.
To the door!
If you truly belong to me...
you will do as I ask.
In return,
I will not abandon you.
I will come for you.
-You're choosing her over me?
-I am keeping us alive.
-By making me a prize.
-I will not abandon you.
I will lie with you.
You shall remain cursed
until your word is made true.
Your life shall wither, Uhtred,
until you find me.
And I will find you.
Shield wall ready!
[wood clattering]
Lord, there is something happening.
Every man at the ready.
Every sword!
Lift the bar and open the door.
Move!
[men grunting]
I count a few more than thirty
of the bastards.
Fight, Haesten, and you will lose men.
-Many men, I guarantee it.
-I have many men.
[Finan] But you have just the one life!
And I plan to take it.
Move out!
[men grunting]
-[screaming]
-Dagfinn! Easy, easy!
[men grunting]
I will not leave without her, Uhtred.
I may lose men,
but you will lose everything,
and the bitch will still be mine.
Then take her,
because that is what you will have to do.
Or we can strike a bargain.
One woman in place of another.
I am in no need of a nun.
-Who is this woman?
-Skade. The seer.
Finan.
She is yours.
In return, you and your men
ride clear of this place
and do not return.
She is not yours to give.
-She belongs to Bloodhair.
-I belong to the man I choose.
The man who has the will to lead,
to conquer.
Bloodhair is not that man.
[Uhtred] She has seen Alfred's death...
and in battle.
Her man will benefit
from that death, greatly.
Is this true?
It's true.
May I approach?
Uhtred, you cannot bargain
with this sack of chicken shit.
You're close enough.
If a bargain is made, I will not be
handed over like you would a whore.
I will walk to my new Lord.
And should either man go back on his word,
I shall see he is tormented till the end.
I swear.
Do we have an agreement?
Skade in place of Aethelflaed?
[smacks lips] Agreed.
The seer is mine.
Then step back and she will walk to you.
-And then you leave.
-I will.
And you are cursed once more,
Uhtred of Bebbanburg.
You shall wither!
Go.
Open, let her pass.
This does not mean the princess
is forgiven, Uhtred.
She is safe for now, no more than that.
Leave. Go.
Your life is not your own, Lord.
Lord.
Aethelhelm.
How good of you to join me.
I thought it fitting that
our first meeting should be at prayers.
My Lord King, it's an honor to be asked.
And this, if I am not mistaken,
must be Edward?
Lord.
I too am happy to see you
here at Winchester.
I look forward to meeting
your daughter, Aelflaed,
but only at a time that you think fit,
of course.
[chuckles dryly] Charming.
Aethelhelm, I shall bring you
into my confidence immediately.
War is coming.
Your lands are under threat.
Danes are marching in numbers
from north to south.
Let us pray for the strength and fortitude
to defeat them once again.
Join me.
[indistinct chatter]
[urinating]
[sighs]
[Aethelwold] I am... to my bed.
Good night! Good night!
[sighs]
[voice whispering indistinctly]
[panting]
[breathing heavily]
[grunting]
[yelling]
[Ragnar chokes]
[panting]
[grunts]